This Dockerfile is very common for deploying a simple static website using Nginx. Let's break down each line:

Dockerfile

FROM nginx:alpine
COPY index.html /usr/share/nginx/html/
EXPOSE 80
Purpose of this Dockerfile:

This Dockerfile's goal is to create a lightweight Docker image that serves a static HTML file (index.html) using the Nginx web server.

Line by Line Explanation:

FROM nginx:alpine

FROM: This is the first instruction in almost every Dockerfile. It specifies the base image upon which your new image will be built. 
Think of it as the foundational operating system and core software your application needs.

nginx:alpine: This is the specific base image being pulled from Docker Hub (the public Docker registry).

nginx: This indicates that the base image is the official Nginx web server. Nginx is a popular, high-performance web server often used for serving static content, reverse proxying, and load balancing.
:alpine: This is the tag (or version) of the Nginx image. alpine refers to a very small and lightweight Linux distribution called Alpine Linux. Using alpine variants of images is a common practice 
in Docker to keep image sizes minimal, which results in faster downloads, less storage consumption, and a smaller attack surface.
What it does: Docker will download the nginx:alpine image if it's not already on your local machine. All subsequent instructions in your Dockerfile will be layered on top of this base image.

COPY index.html /usr/share/nginx/html/

COPY: This instruction copies files or directories from your Docker build context (the directory where you run docker build) into the Docker image.
index.html: This is the source path. It means Docker will look for a file named index.html in the same directory where your Dockerfile is located (or relative to it).
/usr/share/nginx/html/: This is the destination path inside the Docker image. This is the standard directory where Nginx looks for static web files to serve by default.
What it does: This command takes your index.html file from your local machine (your build context) and places it inside the /usr/share/nginx/html/ directory within the Docker image. 
When a container is run from this image, Nginx will then serve this index.html file as its default page.
EXPOSE 80

EXPOSE: This instruction informs Docker that the container will listen on the specified network ports at runtime.
80: This refers to TCP port 80, which is the standard port for HTTP traffic.
What it does: It acts as documentation for anyone using your image, indicating which ports the application inside the container expects to use. It doesn't actually publish the port to the host machine. 
To publish the port (make it accessible from outside the container), you would use the -p flag when running the container (e.g., docker run -p 8080:80 my-nginx-image).


